We're looking
at the front shoulder of the animal,
and we're going to start dissecting
and breaking it down,
but the first thing we'd like to do
is we start
by taking off the front trotter
and then we'll work
on taking off the front hawk
before we even
get into the shoulder itself.
So I like to joint out the front trotter,
and in order to do that,
I need to find where I'm going
to be sinking my knife into
because there is a complicated
kind of network of bones
and ligaments in here.
So I'm looking for if this would be
the wrist section just above the wrist.
There's almost like a little nub in here,
so I'm looking for that nub.
Very technical terms here and where
I can sink my thumb just above it.
That's going to be my marker
to where I want to take it off.
So I'll start by taking my knife
and holding it in the traditional way.
I just want to come at that spot like so
and what I'm doing is
as I'm rounding my knife into it
because there's a thick tendon
that sits almost in a concave bone.
So I'm going to take my knife
and come into that section there.
And once I've
exposed it, that allows me
to put a little bit of down pressure on it
and then I can actually just run
my knife in like so
and I can joint out
that front I can, as you can see,
a complicated network of bones in here
and that thick tendon
just sits right in this area here.
So there's our front trotter.
I could joint out the hawk here,
but for I think culinary purposes,
instead of having the natural shape
come out
because it almost comes down into a deep
v, which creates kind of a weird,
I don't know, un, unsymmetrical shape.
So I like to come in and make it just one
clean cut across.
So I'm using as a marker this section
right here, which would be for
lack of a better term, an elbow
and into the armpit.
So elbow to armpit,
I'm going to take my steak knife
and I'm just going to come in and cut.
So and then I'll take my hand saw.
I'll just cut through the bone
and then finish off my cut.
Like so.
Then you can see where the front hawk.
And there is the trotter.